Getafe Club de Fútbol, or simply Getafe, is a Spanish professional football club that plays in La Liga. The club is based in Getafe, a town in the south of the greater Madrid metropolitan area. The club's home stadium is Coliseum Alfonso Pérez which was opened in 1998 and can hold 17,393 spectators. The club was founded in 1946 and refounded in 1983.

Getafe participated in the top level of Spanish football for 12 years between 2004 and 2016. The club's main rivalry is against neighbours Leganés, who are based in close proximity to the town of Getafe, and a friendly rivalry against Real Madrid and Atlético Madrid.

The club started 2004–05 poorly, lying at the bottom of the table. Home wins over Espanyol, Athletic Bilbao, Valencia and Real Madrid, followed by a sole away win of the season over Athletic Bilbao, saw Getafe climb to finish 13th, being the only promoted side to avoid relegation. At the end of the season, the club lost head coach Quique Sánchez Flores and several players to rival clubs. In Getafe's next season, the club briefly topped the table before slipping to finish ninth. During the 2006 FIFA World Cup, Argentine-born Mariano Pernía became Getafe's first ever Spanish international, before moving to Atlético Madrid.

In 2006–07, Getafe again finished ninth in the league, conceding only 33 goals in 38 matches and goalkeeper Roberto Abbondanzieri was awarded the Zamora Trophy, having recorded 12 clean sheets. The highlight of the club's season was reaching the 2006–07 Copa del Rey final, a competition in which Getafe had never reached the quarter-finals before. The run included a two-legged semi-final against Barcelona in which Getafe lost the first leg 5–2 at the Camp Nou before producing a 4–0 rout in the second leg at the Coliseum Alfonso Pérez. Getafe lost their first ever major final 1–0 to Sevilla at the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium. Through this, the club qualified for the following season's UEFA Cup qualification, as Sevilla had already qualified for the UEFA Champions League through their league position.

Stadium: Coliseum Alfonso Pérez
Capacity: 17,393